# Contents

1.  [User documentation](#user)
2.  [Developer documentation](#dev)

# [BISICLES documentation](#top)

## User documentation(#user)

There is a modest collection of documentation which aims to show how to
build and run BISICLES, and to select run-time options. Most of it will
make more sense in the context of the published papers: to begin with we
suggest [Cornford, Martin et al, The Cryosphere, 9, 1579-1600,
2015](http://www.the-cryosphere.net/9/1579/2015/) , which describes the
steps needed to run realistic problems, tuned to modern satellite and
airborne observations.

1.  Building and running BISICLES
    1.  [Generic instructions](readme.md)
    2.  [Site specific notes](sites.md)
    3.  [Common issues](trouble.md)
2.  BISICLES executables
    1.  [driver](driver.md) - used to run ice sheet simulations
    2.  [solverBenchmark](benchmark.md) - used to run the ice velocity
        solver from the main code as a standalone solver
    3.  [file tools](filetools.md), used to perform miscellaneous
        actions on BISICLES hdf5 files
    4.  [cdriver interface](cdriver.md), used to control BISICLES from
        an external C or FORTRAN program
3.  Run-time options. [driver](driver.md),
    [solverBenchmark](benchmark.md), and the [cdriver
    interface](cdriver.md) share many of their run-time options.
    1.  [Run-time configuration, input, output, and
        checkpoints](io.md)
    2.  [Ice sheet geometry](geometry.md): specifying the initial ice
        thickness and bedrock elevation, plus boundary conditions for
        geometry and velocity.
    3.  [Stresses (in-ice and basal)](stress.md): specifying the
        stress model components.
    4.  [Thermodynamics](thermodynamics.md) : initial state and
        evolution of the internal energy density (temperature and water
        fraction)
    5.  [Calculation of the ice velocity](velocity.md), includes both
        forward and inverse problems.
    6.  [Surface fluxes](surfaceflux.md) (accumulation, ablation,
        energy balance, bedrock uplift)
    7.  [LevelData interface](leveldatainterface.md), used to load
        meshed data, for example thickness and topography
    8.  [Python interface](pythoninterface.md), used to compute data
        \'on the fly\' with simple formulae
4.  Example applications
    1.  Frank Pattyn\'s [MISMIP3D](readme.md#example)
    2.  A [Pine Island Glacier](pineisland.md) example which uses real
        topography and thickness data. Includes an example [inverse
        problem](pineislandinverse.md) which estimate model
        coefficients to match observed speed
5.  Viewing and analyzing data
    1.  [Viewing data with visit](visit.md)
    2.  [Analyzing data with R, MATLAB, Python, etc](libamrfile.md)

## [Developer documentation](#dev)

Developer documentation is included with the source distribution, and it
makes sense to read [Cornford, Martin et al, J. Comp. Phys, 232,
529-549, 2013](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jcp.2012.08.037). Developers
will need to be familiar with C++ and
[Chombo](https://commons.lbl.gov/display/chombo/Chombo+-+Software+for+Adaptive+Solutions+of+Partial+Differential+Equations).
The code is documented using doxygen: if you have doxygen and graphviz
installed it can be generated by running the command

    > cd path-to-bisicles/code
    > make doxygen

which will produce md files in
[path-to-bisicles/code/doc/doxygen/md/index.html](../code/doc/doxygen/html/index.html).
There are also some design document .tex files, in
[path-to-bisicles/code/doc](../code/doc/). Assuming you have latex
installed, pdf files can be created by running.

    > cd path-to-bisicles/code
    > make doc

There are also some tests that developers need to be aware of:

[Unit tests](tests.md): a few tests of individual components.

[Regression tests](regression.md): tests of the code as a whole

